so about six months ago with the help of
Asus and Wounded Warrior Project I put
together a gaming PC for Joey who's a
war veteran who's put his life on the
line for his country and an all-around
awesome dude but recently his system
stopped booting altogether so Joey
actually took it upon himself to
deconstruct the whole system rebuild it
he even tried swapping out the
motherboard with one that I let him
borrow and nothing has worked so he's
actually shipped the PC back to me so I
can troubleshoot it and hopefully get it
working that way he won't have to go
back to gaming on his xbox as a
refresher Asus was a partner for this
build so the whole system is pretty much
kitted out with a lot of their tough
gaming Alliance parts but as for the
chorus pecs we've got an AMD risin 730
700 X on an X 570 tough gaming
motherboard 16 gigs of team group ddr4
3000 speed and an Asus tough gaming r-tx
2060 let's crack this sucka open and
take a look inside by the way the board
that I let him borrow for
troubleshooting was the MGP X 570 giving
plus from I'm assigning case you were
curious he sent that back as well holy
guacamole look at them cable cable
management Joey
you can tell Joey definitely did some
heavy troubleshooting here because it
did not look this way when I built it
but you know what more power to him Joey
had never built a PC himself before so
the fact that he took it apart and
rebuilt it himself completely on his own
is pretty admirable but let's go ahead
and power this guy on and see if it
boots I'm not expecting much because
Joey already said it wasn't booting
properly but let's just see what kind of
behavior we get here this video was
brought to you by the EVGA r-tx 2060
kayo the card features six gigs of GDD
are six memory a quiet dual fan design
and full metal backplate for added
rigidity fast yet affordable the r-tx
2060 kayo is built on NVIDIA stiring
architecture allowing users to
experience RTX on for next-level realism
and games click on the link below to
learn more I'm not expecting much
because Joey already said it wasn't
booting properly but let's just see what
kind of behavior we get here
oh nothing something's not connected
it's not giving us any signals here so
let's take a look at our wiring front
panel connectors we're gonna check whoa
whoa hold on front panel connectors is
that a fan header I think Joey plugged
the front panel connectors into a fan
header that is interesting what's
plugged into the front panel connector
HD audio okay so Joey plug the HD audio
connector into the front panel pins and
he plug the front panel connectors into
a fan header that could explain why our
power button is not working let's go
ahead and fix that for oh the pains of
early PC building we've all been there
before Joey I've been there many times
don't be too hard on yourself all right
let's see if that works power button
engage engage okay it's still not doing
anything okay something else is afoot
here let's first check the motherboard
okay we're gonna have to take the back
panel off Oh getting their hands dirty
now boys okay so we got some sleep
extensions here that are plugged into
the actual stock PSU cables that
connection looks pretty good let's trace
it back make sure it's plugged into the
power supply you guys are gonna be able
to see this but yeah ATX motherboard ATX
24 pin is good let's take a look at our
CPU so we've got two we've got an eight
pin and a four pin for our CPU
connectors to which he has plugged in so
at this point I've already
double-checked all the connections on
the PSU and the motherboard and between
the extensions and the PSU cables
everything is connected properly and
securely from the power supply to the
motherboard and I already fixed the
power button front panel connector so
technically it should be turning on but
it's not so something else is going on
here maybe we've got a bad PSU let's try
a different one okay we've got our NZXT
C 750 fresh out of the box so unless
this thing's DOA it should be working no
problemo let's go ahead and hook this
guy yet which means we have to unplug oh
oh
and then GPU okay get you in here 24 pin
for the motherboard and I don't know if
this power supply has two CPU cables but
for now we're gonna connect this single
a pin okay what's quickly becoming a
franken build is now wired up we can
turn the power supply on Oh power supply
is already on okay and so far no power
LEDs so I'm guessing this is not going
to work
No doesn't that work it does not work
what the heck
wait is this oh my god
I'm dumb hold on if that if this works
if this fixes it you guys know I do a
lot of dumb stuff but I've really
outdone myself this time around the
power strip that the PC and the power
supply were plugged into was off the
freakin thing was off but hey look at
that the PCs working the PCs working
this is Joey's PC where it is desktop
now doesn't that actually mean he
shipped this PC all the way to my house
because of a front panel connector I
think it does I I feel bad about that
however that does not explain why Joey's
system stopped booting all of a sudden
in the first place before all of this
happened before he started taking things
out and plugging things into the wrong
places something inside the piece he
went bad now really quick I gotta verify
that Joey's actual power supply is
working so I've gone ahead and plugged
all of these cables back into the other
components let's see if it works
power supply is probably not on they're
just full of derp j-- in this video
okay it's turning on looks like it's
booting up fine and there we go so the
system is clearly working now but what
the heck caused the issue in the first
place
wait hold on hold the phone I just
remembered something Joey didn't just
send me the PC he also sent me a second
graphics card that I actually gave to
him as a little upgrade because when we
did the video Asus agreed to send in RTX
2060 for the build which is a fantastic
car but I wanted to give Joey something
a little bit more high-end so he could
like get those higher frame rates and
stuff so I actually had Asus throw in an
RT X 2070 super is this a super yes it
is a super I'm sure it's fine but just
to cross it off the list why don't we
try booting the system with this GPU
just to make sure it's working Danny Amy
okay power supply back on motherboard
LEDs are still on here let's go ahead
and fire it up did you hear that there
was a click there was a click did this
GPU die hold on the systems clearly
aren't turning on I think the GPU is to
blame because it's the only thing we've
changed literally the only thing we've
changed and we were booting into Windows
just fine a second ago so let's try this
GPU in another board so we've gotten
five seventy prime series motherboard
from Asus along with 16 gigs of Corsair
Vengeance Pro ddr4 I believe it's three
thousand speed we've got an AMD Wraith
prism RGB cooler on top of a risin nine
3900 X let's let this guy in oh it's so
much more exciting when things don't
work alright okay that's a good thing I
have this power supply right here we're
gonna be using an NZXT EC 750 come on
come on
come on sometimes I swear to Bob okay
okay getting power to the motherboard
that's good let's see what happens when
we turn it on click another click didn't
turn on the graphics card is dead crap
how did that happen I don't know but for
whatever reason the graphics card isn't
working and that's a shame because it's
the much faster of the two GPUs that
Joey has I really don't want to accept
the reality of the situation so just to
double confirm I'm gonna pop the RT X
2060 in here moment of truth if this
works if this boots up no problem the RT
X 2070 super here is officially dead so
moment of truth oh it looks like it's
Bowden its Bowden Joey Joey I'm sorry my
friend you're our TX 2070 super for
whatever reason for reasons beyond my
understanding is dead from from burners
so here's what happened Joey was using
his system with the RT X 2070 super
installed everything was working
perfectly fine until one day the GPU
decided to die Joey started
troubleshooting he ripped the whole PC
out and rebuilt it using the perfectly
fine and functional our TX 2060 but when
he put the system back together he
accidentally plugged the power button
front panel connector into the wrong
header on the motherboard preventing the
system from booting and leaving him
without a clue as to what was wrong by
god Watson we've done it again
obviously this is very sad no one likes
to see a GPU kick the bucket especially
a high-end wine but at least Joey sent
all this in to me at first I thought it
was all in vain that he had just wasted
a bunch of time and money because the
front panel connector was the only issue
but now we know for certain that the GPU
is dead something that he may or may not
have been able to confirm on his own
because he's obviously limited with the
hardware that he has on hand the
troubleshoot with fortunately I was able
to figure things out and that we can
move on from here now that I've
unraveled this little mystery I can
begin unraveling all of these cables and
redoing them so that they look nice
again and given the system a good
cleaning well
we meet again molex come on peace it
even unplugging it sucks I'm so glad
this case doesn't have a power supply
shroud you know my life was just too
easy up until this point I was like
please make it more difficult what is
this where do you go
damn you deal with you later undo all
the things Oh leave it to an excess of
RGB cables to make everything suck I got
to turn this guy around holy guacamole
it's a lot of cables it's most
definitely easier to do cable management
from scratch as opposed to undoing
someone's cable management and then
redoing it because now all the cables
are jumbled together they're not
separated in their respective boxes
where you know where everything goes
it's a little trickier to say the least
but it's okay
I've been training all my life for this
moment and definitely won't screw
anything up says the guy who doesn't
know how power strips work shut up that
could have happened to anyone okay I
think I'm about ready to take this build
out back and shoot it I mean clean it
I'm gonna clean it let's do that lease
it's got these nice handles they're
quite handy
[Music]
still got to wipe down some of the areas
with the datavac mist particularly
inside the fan frames oh yeah oh yeah
that's some dirty hands right there oh
yeah make sure you stroke that to
thoroughly Sun once upon a time there
was a gaming PC that I built for a war
veteran named yahooeys it ran so good
for months on end but then one day it
wouldn't boot he was sad
something inside the rig went bad and
now it's back inside my room I'm gonna
troubleshoot that mother-effer till it's
ruinin doom all right you know what this
could take me a while so uh why don't we
kick it over to a
[Music]
[Applause]
alrigh cable management and cleaning is
complete look at that okay I'm just I'm
just it's like I've done this before yes
so you know it's it's pretty organized
for the most parts definitely much
better than it was so basically you can
see how I've sort of set this up this is
pretty much you know cable management
101 but you kind of want to like group
things together so it's not all just one
jumbled mess so you can see I've got
some separation going on here CPU a IO
motherboard a front fans got all the
molex connections here and so forth so
it definitely makes things a bit more
organized so if you ever do need to get
back here and rewire things or add new
devices it's not a friggin nightmare
but yeah it looks pretty good pretty
snazzy let's take a look at the other
side of real quick oh that's just
Moaning half my videos are moaning now
chicka wham Wham not much else to say
here other than it's clean it's looking
good you could eat off of the floor of
the chassis no don't do that but it's
looking good and it's working properly
now so everything's fine Joey should be
able to go back to gaming on this bad
boy and using it as he pleases also
something super cool just happened I
actually reached out to Asus earlier and
asked if they would mind replacing
Joey's r-tx 2070 super and they said yes
they're gonna do it they're gonna
replace it it's actually on its way
right now which is super awesome it's
really cool and big of a C's to do that
so huge shout out to those guys the
whole team at Asus thank you so much for
making Joey's day I definitely had my
fair share of obstacles in today's video
but you know what it ended on a high
note so I can't complain too much guys
if you enjoyed this video toss saw Luke
before you go and get subscribed for
more tech content on the way also check
out bit wit da tech our merchandise
store yes it's still here and you still
haven't bought anything from it shame on
you no I'm just kidding but if you see
anything you like feel free to pick it
up it's a great way to help support us
everything we make on our store goes
right back into the channel so we can
continue bringing you autumn content
thanks again for watching this one guys
have a good one and I'll see you in the
next video